# Lesson 2.5: Customizing Widgets in Flutter

In this sub-lesson, we will cover how to customize widgets in Flutter. Customizing widgets is an essential part of mobile app development, and Flutter provides several ways to customize widgets, including theming and creating custom widgets. We will cover some of the most commonly used techniques for customizing widgets, including theming with ThemeData and creating custom widgets with StatefulWidget. We will also provide real-world code examples to demonstrate these concepts.

## Theming

Theming is the process of defining a set of visual properties that are applied consistently throughout an app. In Flutter, theming can be achieved with the Theme widget and ThemeData class.

Example Code:

```dart
class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      title: 'MyApp',
      theme: ThemeData(
        primaryColor: Colors.blue,
        accentColor: Colors.red,
        textTheme: TextTheme(
          bodyText1: TextStyle(fontSize: 18.0),
        ),
      ),
      home: MyHomePage(),
    );
  }
}
```

In the example code above, we have a MaterialApp widget that defines a ThemeData object with a primary color of blue, an accent color of red, and a body text style with a font size of 18.0.

## Creating Custom Widgets

Creating custom widgets allows you to encapsulate complex UI elements into reusable components that can be easily used throughout an app. In Flutter, custom widgets can be created with the StatefulWidget class.

Example Code:

```dart
class MyCustomWidget extends StatefulWidget {
  final String text;

  MyCustomWidget({Key key, this.text}) : super(key: key);

  @override
  _MyCustomWidgetState createState() => _MyCustomWidgetState();
}

class _MyCustomWidgetState extends State<MyCustomWidget> {
  bool _isSelected = false;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return GestureDetector(
      onTap: () {
        setState(() {
          _isSelected = !_isSelected;
        });
      },
      child: Container(
        padding: EdgeInsets.all(16.0),
        color: _isSelected ? Colors.blue : Colors.grey,
        child: Text(widget.text),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

In the example code above, we have a custom widget, MyCustomWidget, that displays some text and changes color when tapped. The StatefulWidget class is used to define the widget's state, and the GestureDetector widget is used to detect taps and update the widget's state.

## Conclusion:

In this sub-lesson, we have covered how to customize widgets in Flutter. We have covered some of the most commonly used techniques for customizing widgets, including theming with ThemeData and creating custom widgets with StatefulWidget. We have also provided real-world code examples to demonstrate these concepts. In the next lesson, we will cover how to build complex UIs in Flutter, including working with animations and advanced layout techniques.