Module 4, Sub-lesson 2: Making HTTP Requests with Flutter

In this sub-lesson, we will cover how to make HTTP requests with Flutter using the HTTP package. We will explore the different types of HTTP requests and how to send and receive data using each of them.

HTTP requests are the primary way to send and receive data over the internet. In Flutter, we can use the HTTP package to make HTTP requests. This package provides a set of classes and methods that make it easy to send and receive data.

## Types of HTTP Requests

There are four types of HTTP requests that we can make

- GET: Retrieves data from the server
- POST: Sends data to the server
- PUT: Updates data on the server
- DELETE: Deletes data from the server

In this lesson, we will focus on how to make GET and POST requests.

## Making a GET Request:

A GET request retrieves data from the server. In Flutter, we can use the http.get method to make a GET request. Here is an example of how to make a GET request:

```dart
import 'dart:convert';
import 'package:http/http.dart' as http;

Future<List<Post>> fetchPosts() async {
  final response = await http.get('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts');

  if (response.statusCode == 200) {
    final parsed = json.decode(response.body).cast<Map<String, dynamic>>();
    return parsed.map<Post>((json) => Post.fromJson(json)).toList();
  } else {
    throw Exception('Failed to load posts');
  }
}
```

In this example, we use the http.get method to retrieve a list of posts from an external API. We then use the json.decode method to parse the JSON response and create a list of Post objects.

## Making a POST Request:

A POST request sends data to the server. In Flutter, we can use the http.post method to make a POST request. Here is an example of how to make a POST request:

```dart
import 'dart:convert';
import 'package:http/http.dart' as http;

Future<http.Response> createPost(Post post) async {
  final response = await http.post(
    'https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts',
    headers: <String, String>{
      'Content-Type': 'application/json; charset=UTF-8',
    },
    body: jsonEncode(<String, dynamic>{
      'title': post.title,
      'body': post.body,
      'userId': post.userId,
    }),
  );

  if (response.statusCode == 201) {
    return response;
  } else {
    throw Exception('Failed to create post');
  }
}
```

In this example, we use the http.post method to send a new post to an external API. We set the headers to specify that we are sending JSON data and then use the jsonEncode method to convert the Post object to a JSON string.

## Handling Network Responses:

When we make HTTP requests in Flutter, we need to handle the responses appropriately. Here are some common response codes and how to handle them:

- 200: OK - The request was successful, and the server returned the requested data
- 201: Created - The request was successful, and the server created a new resource
- 400: Bad Request - The request was malformed or invalid
- 401: Unauthorized - The request requires authentication, and the user is not authenticated
- 404: Not Found - The requested resource was not found on the server
- 500: Internal Server Error - An error occurred on the server

## Conclusion:

In this sub-lesson, we have covered how to make HTTP requests with Flutter using the HTTP package. We have explored the different types of HTTP requests and how to send and receive data using each of them. We have also discussed how to handle network responses and common response codes.

By understanding how to make HTTP requests in Flutter, you can easily retrieve and send data to external APIs. It is important to handle network responses appropriately and provide error messages to users when necessary. By following best practices for making HTTP requests, you can build robust and reliable applications that are able to communicate effectively with external APIs.