# Module 4, Sub-lesson 4: Storing Data Locally with Flutter

In this sub-lesson, we will cover how to store data locally in Flutter. We will explore the different types of storage options available and how to use them effectively in your application.

Storing data locally is an important aspect of mobile application development. It allows your application to save data locally on the user's device, which can help improve performance and reduce network traffic. In Flutter, there are several options available for storing data locally.

## Types of Local Storage

There are several types of local storage options available in Flutter, including:

- Shared Preferences: A key-value store for storing small amounts of data.
- SQLite: A relational database for storing large amounts of structured data.
- File System: A file-based storage for storing large amounts of unstructured data.
- Hive: A lightweight and fast NoSQL database for storing large amounts of structured or unstructured data.

In this sub-lesson, we will focus on how to use shared preferences and SQLite to store data locally.

## Using Shared Preferences

Shared preferences provide a simple way to store key-value pairs in your application. It is useful for storing small amounts of data, such as user preferences or settings. Here is an example of how to use shared preferences:

```dart
import 'package:shared_preferences/shared_preferences.dart';

Future<void> saveData() async {
  final prefs = await SharedPreferences.getInstance();
  prefs.setString('key', 'value');
}

Future<String> getData() async {
  final prefs = await SharedPreferences.getInstance();
  return prefs.getString('key');
}
```

In this example, we use the SharedPreferences.getInstance method to retrieve an instance of shared preferences. We then use the setString method to save a key-value pair and the getString method to retrieve the value.

## Using SQLite

SQLite is a popular relational database that can be used to store large amounts of structured data in your application. In Flutter, we can use the sqflite package to interact with SQLite databases. Here is an example of how to use SQLite:

```dart
import 'package:sqflite/sqflite.dart';
import 'package:path/path.dart';

final database = openDatabase(
  join(await getDatabasesPath(), 'my_database.db'),
  onCreate: (db, version) {
    return db.execute(
      'CREATE TABLE users(id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, name TEXT, age INTEGER)',
    );
  },
  version: 1,
);

Future<void> insertUser(User user) async {
  final db = await database;
  await db.insert(
    'users',
    user.toMap(),
    conflictAlgorithm: ConflictAlgorithm.replace,
  );
}

Future<List<User>> getUsers() async {
  final db = await database;
  final List<Map<String, dynamic>> maps = await db.query('users');
  return List.generate(maps.length, (i) {
    return User(
      id: maps[i]['id'],
      name: maps[i]['name'],
      age: maps[i]['age'],
    );
  });
}

class User {
  final int id;
  final String name;
  final int age;

  User({this.id, this.name, this.age});

  Map<String, dynamic> toMap() {
    return {'id': id, 'name': name, 'age': age};
  }
}
```

In this example, we create a SQLite database with a users table. We define a User class with three properties and a toMap method that converts a User object to a Map object. We then define methods for inserting a new user and retrieving a list of all users from the database.

## Using File System

The file system is a file-based storage for storing large amounts of unstructured data. In Flutter, we can use the dart:io library to read and write files to the file system. This is useful for storing large files such as images, audio, and video.
Here is an example of how to write a string to a file:

```dart
import 'dart:io';

Future<File> writeFile(String text) async {
  final file = File('path/to/file.txt');
  return file.writeAsString(text);
}

Future<String> readFile() async {
  final file = File('path/to/file.txt');
  return file.readAsString();
}
```

In this example, we use the File class from the dart:io library to read and write a string to a file. We can use similar methods to read and write binary data to files as well.

## Using Hive

Hive is a lightweight and fast NoSQL database for storing large amounts of structured or unstructured data. In Flutter, we can use the hive package to interact with Hive databases. Hive is similar to SQLite but with a simpler API and faster performance.
Here is an example of how to use Hive:

```dart
import 'package:hive/hive.dart';

class User {
  int id;
  String name;
  int age;
}

Future<void> saveUser(User user) async {
  final box = await Hive.openBox<User>('users');
  await box.put(user.id, user);
}

Future<List<User>> getUsers() async {
  final box = await Hive.openBox<User>('users');
  return box.values.toList();
}
```

In this example, we define a User class and use Hive to save and retrieve user objects from a Hive box.

## Conclusion:

In this sub-lesson, we have covered how to store data locally in Flutter using shared preferences, SQLite, File System and Hive. We have explored the different types of storage options available and how to use them effectively in your application. By understanding how to store data locally, you can improve the performance of your application and reduce network traffic by reducing the need to retrieve data from external APIs.

It is important to choose the right type of storage for your application based on the type and amount of data you need to store. Shared preferences are useful for storing small amounts of data, while SQLite is useful for storing large amounts of structured data. By following best practices for storing data locally, you can build robust and reliable applications that are able to handle different types of data effectively.