# Module 4, Sub-lesson 5: Working with APIs and Data Persistence

In this sub-lesson, we will explore how to work with APIs and data persistence in Flutter. We will cover how to integrate external APIs into your application and how to persist data between app sessions.

## Working with APIs

Working with APIs is an essential aspect of mobile application development. APIs allow us to retrieve data from external sources and integrate it into our applications. In Flutter, we can use the http package to make HTTP requests to APIs.

Here is an example of how to make an HTTP GET request to an API:

```dart
import 'dart:convert';
import 'package:http/http.dart' as http;

Future<List<Post>> fetchPosts() async {
  final response = await http.get('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts');

  if (response.statusCode == 200) {
    final parsed = json.decode(response.body).cast<Map<String, dynamic>>();
    return parsed.map<Post>((json) => Post.fromJson(json)).toList();
  } else {
    throw Exception('Failed to load posts');
  }
}
```

In this example, we use the http.get method to make an HTTP GET request to the JSONPlaceholder API. We then parse the JSON response and convert it to a list of Post objects.

## Working with Data Persistence

Data persistence is important for maintaining state between app sessions. In Flutter, we can use the different local storage options we have discussed in the previous sub-lesson to persist data.

Here is an example of how to save and retrieve a list of Post objects using shared preferences:

```dart
import 'package:shared_preferences/shared_preferences.dart';

Future<void> savePosts(List<Post> posts) async {
  final prefs = await SharedPreferences.getInstance();
  final encoded = json.encode(posts.map((post) => post.toJson()).toList());
  prefs.setString('posts', encoded);
}

Future<List<Post>> getPosts() async {
  final prefs = await SharedPreferences.getInstance();
  final encoded = prefs.getString('posts');
  if (encoded != null) {
    final parsed = json.decode(encoded).cast<Map<String, dynamic>>();
    return parsed.map<Post>((json) => Post.fromJson(json)).toList();
  } else {
    return [];
  }
}
```

In this example, we use shared preferences to save and retrieve a list of Post objects. We convert the list of Post objects to JSON and then save the encoded string to shared preferences. When retrieving the data, we decode the JSON string and convert it back to a list of Post objects.

## Conclusion

In this sub-lesson, we have covered how to work with APIs and data persistence in Flutter. We have explored how to make HTTP requests to APIs and how to parse the responses. We have also discussed how to use the different local storage options to persist data between app sessions. By understanding how to work with APIs and data persistence, you can build robust and efficient applications that are able to communicate effectively with external APIs and maintain state between app sessions.