# Module 3.2: Basic State Management Techniques

In this sub-lesson, we will cover basic state management techniques in Flutter. We will cover the StatefulWidget class and the setState() method, which are two of the most common ways to manage state in Flutter. We will also provide real-world examples to demonstrate these concepts.

## StatefulWidget

The StatefulWidget class is used to create widgets that can change their state over time. Widgets created using StatefulWidget consist of two classes: the widget class and the state class. The widget class is immutable and creates the state object, which is mutable and manages the state of the widget.

Example Code:

```java
class MyWidget extends StatefulWidget {
  @override
  _MyWidgetState createState() => _MyWidgetState();
}

class _MyWidgetState extends State<MyWidget> {
  bool _isOn = false;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Switch(
      value: _isOn,
      onChanged: (bool newValue) {
        setState(() {
          _isOn = newValue;
        });
      },
    );
  }
}
```

In the example code above, we have a Switch widget that toggles a boolean value, _isOn, using the onChanged callback. The setState() method is used to update the state when the value is changed.

## setState

The setState() method is used to update the state of a widget. When the state is updated, the build() method is called again to update the UI to reflect the new state.

Example Code:

```dart
class MyWidget extends StatefulWidget {
  @override
  _MyWidgetState createState() => _MyWidgetState();
}

class _MyWidgetState extends State<MyWidget> {
  int _count = 0;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Column(
      children: <Widget>[
        Text('Count: $_count'),
        RaisedButton(
          onPressed: () {
            setState(() {
              _count++;
            });
          },
          child: Text('Increment'),
        ),
      ],
    );
  }
}
```

In the example code above, we have a Column widget that displays a counter value and a RaisedButton widget that increments the counter when pressed. The `setState()` method is used to update the counter value and trigger a rebuild of the UI.

## Conclusion:

In this sub-lesson, we have covered basic state management techniques in Flutter. We have covered the StatefulWidget class and the `setState()` method, which are two of the most common ways to manage state in Flutter. We have also provided real-world examples to demonstrate these concepts. In the next sub-lesson, we will cover advanced state management techniques in Flutter, including the Provider and Bloc packages.